README.md, before:

# Gillimac

> Run these commands to extract all `bash` code blocks from this README to `README.sh`, then run `README.sh` to configure MacOS according to my personal preferences.

```sh
perl extract-scripts.pl > README.sh
sh README.sh
```

## TODO

- [ ] Everything terminal related [Kevin Smets](https://gist.github.com/kevin-smets/8568070), [Owen Caulfield](https://medium.com/@caulfieldOwen/youre-missing-out-on-a-better-mac-terminal-experience-d73647abf6d7)
- [ ] Don't use .bash_profile, only [.zsh files](https://zsh.sourceforge.io/Intro/intro_3.html)
- [ ] .zprofile
- [ ] Run nvm through zshell plugin
- [ ] Check out Ansible

## Install software

### Homebrew

```bash
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
echo '# Set PATH, MANPATH, etc., for Homebrew.' >> /Users/gilliamflebus/.zprofile
echo 'eval "$(/opt/homebrew/bin/brew shellenv)"' >> /Users/gilliamflebus/.zprofile
eval "$(/opt/homebrew/bin/brew shellenv)"
sudo chown -R $(whoami) /usr/local/bin /usr/local/etc /usr/local/sbin

brew bundle
```

### TLDR Man Pages

```bash
npm install -g tldr
```

## Configure software

### NVM

```todo
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.39.3/install.sh | bash
echo "export NVM_DIR=~/.nvm" >> ~/.bash_profile
echo "source $(brew --prefix nvm)/nvm.sh" >> ~/.bash_profile
nvm use latest
```

### Terminal

```todo
# Oh-My-Zsh
sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh/master/tools/install.sh)"
git clone https://github.com/lukechilds/zsh-nvm ~/.oh-my-zsh/custom/plugins/zsh-nvm
git clone https://github.com/asdf-vm/asdf.git ~/.oh-my-zsh/custom/plugins/asdf
git clone https://github.com/romkatv/powerlevel10k.git ~/.oh-my-zsh/custom/themes/powerlevel10k
plugins+=zsh-nvm
plugins+=asdf

echo 'ZSH_THEME="powerlevel10k/powerlevel10k"' >> ~/.zshrc

# Use zshell by default
chsh -s $(which zsh)

# Increase history size
echo HISTFILESIZE=10000000 >> ~/.zprofile

# Use `zsh-completions`
chmod -R go-w '/usr/local/share/zsh'
chmod -R go-w /usr/local/share/zsh/site-functions
chmod -R go-w /usr/local/share

echo "\nif type brew &>/dev/null; then
    FPATH=$(brew --prefix)/share/zsh-completions:$FPATH

    autoload -Uz compinit
    compinit
fi" >> ~/.zshrc
```

### ASDF (Java)

```bash
echo ". $(brew --prefix asdf)/libexec/asdf.sh" >> ~/.zprofile
echo ". ~/.asdf/plugins/java/set-java-home.zsh" >> ~/.zprofile

asdf plugin-add java
asdf install java openjdk-19
asdf global java openjdk-19
```

### VS Code

```bash
# Fira Code Font
curl -sL https://github.com/tonsky/FiraCode/releases/download/1.206/FiraCode_1.206.zip > FiraCode.zip
unzip FiraCode.zip -d FiraCode
mv FiraCode/ttf/* ~/Library/Fonts/
rm -rf FiraCode/ FiraCode.zip
```

### Git

```bash
git config --global user.name "Gilliam"
git config --global user.email "gi11i4m@gmail.com"
git config --global pull.rebase true
git config --global fetch.prune true
git config --global diff.colorMoved zebra
git config --global core.editor "code --wait"

# Generate a new private / public key pair to add to GitHub, GitLab, ...
ssh-keygen -o -t rsa -b 4096
```

## System preferences

> Find preference domains / names like [this](https://pawelgrzybek.com/change-macos-user-preferences-via-command-line/)

### General

```bash
# UI theme → dark mode
defaults write -globalDomain AppleInterfaceStyle "Dark"
# Disable spelling correction
defaults write -globalDomain NSAutomaticSpellingCorrectionEnabled 0
```

### Dock

```bash
m dock autohide YES
m dock magnification YES
m dock prune
```

### Desktop

```bash
# Don't rearrange workspaces
defaults write com.apple.dock "mru-spaces" 0
# Disable Stage Manager
defaults write com.apple.WindowManager GloballyEnabled 0
```

### Keyboard

```bash
# Disable automatic capitalization
defaults write -globalDomain NSAutomaticCapitalizationEnabled 0
```

### Mouse

```bash
# Click by tapping
defaults write com.apple.AppleMultitouchTrackpad Clicking 1
# Enable expose gesture
defaults write com.apple.dock showAppExposeGestureEnabled 1
```

### Finder

```bash
m finder showhiddenfiles YES
# Don't show the tags
defaults write com.apple.finder ShowRecentTags 0
# Preferred view style → three columns
defaults write com.apple.finder CustomViewStyle clmv
# Location for new window → home folder
defaults write com.apple.finder NewWindowTarget PfHm
defaults write com.apple.finder NewWindowTargetPath "file:///Users/${whoami}/"
# Make Finder quitable
defaults write com.apple.finder QuitMenuItem -bool true
```

### Taskbar

```bash
# Add extra items to system menu
defaults write com.apple.systemuiserver menuExtras -array "/System/Library/CoreServices/Menu Extras/Bluetooth.menu" "/System/Library/CoreServices/Menu Extras/Clock.menu" "/System/Library/CoreServices/Menu Extras/Displays.menu" "/System/Library/CoreServices/Menu Extras/Volume.menu"
```

### Restart UI to enable changes

```bash
killall SystemUIServer
```

Commit message:

:sparkles: mackup configuration to restore application settings

README.md, after:

# Gillimac

> Run these commands to extract all `bash` code blocks from this README to `README.sh`, then run `README.sh` to configure MacOS according to my personal preferences.

```sh
perl extract-scripts.pl > README.sh
sh README.sh
```

## TODO

- [ ] Everything terminal related [Kevin Smets](https://gist.github.com/kevin-smets/8568070), [Owen Caulfield](https://medium.com/@caulfieldOwen/youre-missing-out-on-a-better-mac-terminal-experience-d73647abf6d7)
- [ ] Don't use .bash_profile, only [.zsh files](https://zsh.sourceforge.io/Intro/intro_3.html)
- [ ] .zprofile
- [ ] Run nvm through zshell plugin
- [ ] Check out Ansible
- [ ] Use ASDF instead of NVM

## Install software

### Homebrew

```bash
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
echo '# Set PATH, MANPATH, etc., for Homebrew.' >> /Users/gilliamflebus/.zprofile
echo 'eval "$(/opt/homebrew/bin/brew shellenv)"' >> /Users/gilliamflebus/.zprofile
eval "$(/opt/homebrew/bin/brew shellenv)"
sudo chown -R $(whoami) /usr/local/bin /usr/local/etc /usr/local/sbin

brew bundle
```

### TLDR Man Pages

```bash
npm install -g tldr
```

## Configure software

### Mackup
```
echo "Before continuing to restore backup, configure Google Drive and press enter to continue..."
read
cp ./.mackup.cfg ~/.mackup.cfg
mackup restore
```

### NVM

```todo
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.39.3/install.sh | bash
echo "export NVM_DIR=~/.nvm" >> ~/.bash_profile
echo "source $(brew --prefix nvm)/nvm.sh" >> ~/.bash_profile
nvm use latest
```

### Terminal

```todo
# Oh-My-Zsh
sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh/master/tools/install.sh)"
git clone https://github.com/lukechilds/zsh-nvm ~/.oh-my-zsh/custom/plugins/zsh-nvm
git clone https://github.com/asdf-vm/asdf.git ~/.oh-my-zsh/custom/plugins/asdf
git clone https://github.com/romkatv/powerlevel10k.git ~/.oh-my-zsh/custom/themes/powerlevel10k
plugins+=zsh-nvm
plugins+=asdf

echo 'ZSH_THEME="powerlevel10k/powerlevel10k"' >> ~/.zshrc

# Use zshell by default
chsh -s $(which zsh)

# Increase history size
echo HISTFILESIZE=10000000 >> ~/.zprofile

# Use `zsh-completions`
chmod -R go-w '/usr/local/share/zsh'
chmod -R go-w /usr/local/share/zsh/site-functions
chmod -R go-w /usr/local/share

echo "\nif type brew &>/dev/null; then
    FPATH=$(brew --prefix)/share/zsh-completions:$FPATH

    autoload -Uz compinit
    compinit
fi" >> ~/.zshrc
```

### ASDF (Java)

```bash
echo ". $(brew --prefix asdf)/libexec/asdf.sh" >> ~/.zprofile
echo ". ~/.asdf/plugins/java/set-java-home.zsh" >> ~/.zprofile

asdf plugin-add java
asdf install java openjdk-19
asdf global java openjdk-19
```

### VS Code

```bash
# Fira Code Font
curl -sL https://github.com/tonsky/FiraCode/releases/download/1.206/FiraCode_1.206.zip > FiraCode.zip
unzip FiraCode.zip -d FiraCode
mv FiraCode/ttf/* ~/Library/Fonts/
rm -rf FiraCode/ FiraCode.zip
```

### Git

```bash
git config --global user.name "Gilliam"
git config --global user.email "gi11i4m@gmail.com"
git config --global pull.rebase true
git config --global fetch.prune true
git config --global diff.colorMoved zebra
git config --global core.editor "code --wait"

# Generate a new private / public key pair to add to GitHub, GitLab, ...
ssh-keygen -o -t rsa -b 4096
```

## System preferences

> Find preference domains / names like [this](https://pawelgrzybek.com/change-macos-user-preferences-via-command-line/)

### General

```bash
# UI theme → dark mode
defaults write -globalDomain AppleInterfaceStyle "Dark"
# Disable spelling correction
defaults write -globalDomain NSAutomaticSpellingCorrectionEnabled 0
```

### Dock

```bash
m dock autohide YES
m dock magnification YES
m dock prune
```

### Desktop

```bash
# Don't rearrange workspaces
defaults write com.apple.dock "mru-spaces" 0
# Disable Stage Manager
defaults write com.apple.WindowManager GloballyEnabled 0
```

### Keyboard

```bash
# Disable automatic capitalization
defaults write -globalDomain NSAutomaticCapitalizationEnabled 0
```

### Mouse

```bash
# Click by tapping
defaults write com.apple.AppleMultitouchTrackpad Clicking 1
# Enable expose gesture
defaults write com.apple.dock showAppExposeGestureEnabled 1
```

### Finder

```bash
m finder showhiddenfiles YES
# Don't show the tags
defaults write com.apple.finder ShowRecentTags 0
# Preferred view style → three columns
defaults write com.apple.finder CustomViewStyle clmv
# Location for new window → home folder
defaults write com.apple.finder NewWindowTarget PfHm
defaults write com.apple.finder NewWindowTargetPath "file:///Users/${whoami}/"
# Make Finder quitable
defaults write com.apple.finder QuitMenuItem -bool true
```

### Taskbar

```bash
# Add extra items to system menu
defaults write com.apple.systemuiserver menuExtras -array "/System/Library/CoreServices/Menu Extras/Bluetooth.menu" "/System/Library/CoreServices/Menu Extras/Clock.menu" "/System/Library/CoreServices/Menu Extras/Displays.menu" "/System/Library/CoreServices/Menu Extras/Volume.menu"
```

### Restart UI to enable changes

```bash
killall SystemUIServer
```
